Next up we move on to part two.
The second keyword.
Oh wait.
So we have async which we used to declare an async function.
It basically is a fancy way of wrapping that function in a promise but a wait is really magical.
We put the awake keyword inside of an async function and it will pause the execution of the function
while it waits for a promise to be resolved.
So it will await something without having to use a dot next we can run code after an asynchronous operation
without having to mess things with callbacks.
So here's an example let's use axioms which charity have included.
Just do the same old dumb planet's API from swampy and I have Acciona as you can see here we have access
to get that returns a promise instead of returning I promised myself from a function let's call this
get planet's return axial stock get like that and then doing get planets then let's say I want to cancel
that log the planets after the fact.
So get planets then raise
concerns that log red dot data.
So hopefully this works.
No async function involved.
There we go.
We get the data so we return a promise.
Then we have to use dot then and wait until the callback is actually executed in our code gets broken
up.
So a little harder to read.
It's still much better than passing in a bunch of callbacks to a function since we're using promises
but the easier way is to declare an async function get planets we'll do our axioms get passed in the
euro and the craziest part right here is oh wait actually I don't get and will save the value that the
promise is resolved with to a variable I'll call this rez and then I'll put a line after here console
that log rez dot data.
Same thing I had here.
So this looks like it's synchronous.
This is going to happen.
It doesn't matter how long it takes we'll get some response value we'll call it reds then this will
run after.
That promise is resolved only after it's resolved so we don't have to use that then it looks like a
nice cute synchronous function one thing happens it finishes the next thing happens and it finishes
and that is what the await keyword does.
But let's verify that it actually does.
So let's do get planets refresh over here awesome so this returns a promise as we've seen before.
If I just run it over here we get maps copy the wrong part.
I just run the axiom stuff get that return to promise normally without a waits we consider it like resident
data we'll get an error.
Now while we don't get an error we get undefined.
There is no data property because this is a promise that is returned and it's not yet resolved.
When this runs but by putting a wait here javascript will wait it will not move on until this promise
is resolved.
So the promise will be resolved.
That value is resolved with that's normally passed to dot then we'll just be stored in this variable
and then we have access to it on the very next line.
It's important to know though you can only use it wait instead of an async function.
This will not work.
I get a nice error a wait is a reserved word I cannot do it unless I'm in an async function.
So even for just one single request like we have here this is still much easier to read.
We don't have to do dot then we don't need an extra callback.
It's not horrible to do that and to work with promises but this is so nice right.
It's just syntactic sugar so it still uses promises behind the scenes.
It just kind of hides it from you and it makes it look synchronous but it's still easier to read.
It's easier to write and as you'll see when we start making more requests or doing more asynchronous
operations it's very easy to see what happens first and second and third and so on so we get some more
practice.